# Graph Buddy Privacy Policy
The purpose of this Policy is to inform users who use Graph Buddy (the application) about what personal data may be processed in the application, as well as about the purposes of the processing and the manner in which the data are used, and about the related rights of the Users. The personal data administrator (hereinafter referred to as Administrator) protects the privacy of the Users and ensures the security of the data provided by them. The Administrator shall observe the principles of personal data processing and shall apply technical and organizational measures ensuring data security and processing in accordance with the provisions of law. Users' personal data are always processed in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, including in particular the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (GDPR).
## Who is the controller?
The Controller is Virtus Lab Ltd (Sp. z o.o.) with registered office in Rzeszów (35-211), Poland, ul. Zofii Nałkowskiej 23 street, National Court Register entry No. KRS 0000349785, Tax Id. No. (NIP) 5170312965, Industry Id. No. (REGON) 180526627 (the Controller).
The Controller has appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) Mr. Mariusz Zajkiewicz, who can be contacted using the email address: dpo@virtuslab.com or by traditional mail to the company’s address. 
## Purposes and legal basis of data processing:
We may collect data that is required to provide the software, service or other information to you, including validating licenses and updates, providing technical support, reporting problems and errors, and other processing associated with the use of the software, service or information. We may use the data collected to develop and test products and services.
We collect the following data which in whole or in part may be considered personal data, the basis for processing the following data is consent as defined in article 6.1.a, GDPR.
- Random UUID,
- the operating system and its version,
- the language configured by the user system,
- the programming language used in the user project where Graph Buddy is used,
- the time zone configured by the user's system,
- location (region/city) as configured by the system,
- user activity in the IDE, use of keyboard shortcuts.

The data collected in the telemetry process will be used to analyze the performance of the software, to improve its operation in order to adapt it to the needs and preferences of the Users.
Graph Buddy telemetry data is collected and processed with your consent on Microsoft Azure, Google Analytics, Segment platforms.
Without the above personal data, it will not be possible to provide certain Services to the User. 
in order to exchange email correspondence: The personal data are processed for the purpose of communication with the User on the basis of the legitimate interests pursued by the Administrator as defined in article 6.1.f, GDPR. Personal data are provided voluntarily, but their provision is necessary to receive a response from the Administrator. In this case, the personal data are processed due to the legitimate interests of the Controller. The Controller's legitimate interest is to communicate with the individual who requests a response from the Controller. As its legitimate interests, in accordance with article 6.1.f, GDPR, the Controller also takes into account: the investigation and protection against claims, the prevention of fraud, statistics and analytics, ensuring the security of the ICT environment, the application of internal control systems and, in some cases, the direct marketing of its own services.
Recipients of personal data: Personal data may be processed by other service providers of the Administrator providing, among others, financial settlement, legal, advisory, consulting, archiving and IT services. Users' data will not be disclosed to third parties unless it is necessary and the User gives their consent to it or the obligation to disclose the data results from mandatory provisions of law, a valid court judgment or a final decision of a competent authority. The Administrator does not transfer any data to third countries outside the EEA.
## What is profiling and is any data in the App subject to profiling?
Profiling consists in any form of automated processing of personal data evaluating personal aspects relating to a natural person, in particular for the purpose of analyzing or forecasting aspects relating to work performance, economic situation, health, personal preferences or interests, reliability or behaviour, location or movements of the data subject, where this produces legal effects concerning the data subject or significantly affects the data subject in a similar manner. The Administrator does not profile the User's sensitive data. To no extent is the data in the Application subject to profiling. 
## How can personal data be changed?
The user has the right of access to the content of their personal data and the right to rectification and erasure, the right to restrict processing. The User has the right to object to the processing of personal data, which consists in particular in profiling. For this purpose, the User may contact the Administrator at the e-mail address: dpo@virtuslab.com. The User may also contact the Administrator in other ways, at their discretion, including orally and in writing. 
## How does the Administrator protect personal data?
The Administrator secures the Users' data against unauthorized access, disclosure, change or destruction. In particular, the Administrator uses data encryption, physical security measures and verification in IT systems. In addition, the Administrator uses anti-virus software and firewalls. The Users' data can be accessed only by authorized persons obliged to maintain confidentiality, and by subcontractors who have concluded agreements with the Administrator for the subcontracting of personal data processing and who meet the security criteria specified therein.
## How long will personal data be processed?
Users' data will be processed for the duration of the Users' use of the Application. In the case of the provision of Services, personal data shall be processed for the duration of the provision of the Services. In the case of e-mail correspondence, personal data shall be processed for the period necessary to reply to the User. To a limited extent, personal data may also be processed after the expiry of the indicated deadlines, until the statute of limitations for possible claims or as long as it is possible or required under applicable law, e.g. for statistical purposes. After the expiry of the processing period, the personal data are permanently deleted or anonymized.
## Other rights of Users related to data processing
Users have the right to lodge a complaint with the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection if they consider that the processing of their personal data violates mandatory provisions of law.
This Policy shall be effective from the time of its publication on the Website.
## Manage consent
The Controller is Virtus Lab Ltd (Sp. z o.o.) with registered office in Rzeszów (35-211), Poland, ul. Zofii Nałkowskiej 23 street, National Court Register entry No. KRS 0000349785, Tax Id. No. (NIP) 5170312965, Industry Id. No. (REGON) 180526627 (the Controller).
The Controller has appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) Mr. Mariusz Zajkiewicz, who can be contacted using the email address: dpo@virtuslab.com or by traditional mail to the company’s address. 
## Application settings
When running the IDE for the first time with the plugin active, the user can agree to the use of telemetry. The user can change this setting at any time in the IDE settings. Detailed instructions are available here: [link](telemetrySettings.md).
This Policy is effective from the moment of its publication on the Website. More about data processing at Virtus Lab Sp. z o.o. at https://virtuslab.com/privacy-policy/. 
